<div class="UIQuickHelpContentContainer">
	<div class="UIQuickHelpContentPage" id="NewAccountOverviewQuickHelp" style="display: block">
	  <div>In order to create a new account, you need to enter  the information in each tab on the left</div>
	  
	  <ul>
	    <li onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'AccountTemplateQuickHelp')">
	      Use the tab <span>Account Templates</span> to select a pre-configure account. 
	    </li>
	    <li  onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'AccountInputSetQuickHelp')">
	      Use the tab <span>Account Settings</span> to enter  your  basic and  required information
	    </li>
	    <li  onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'UIUserProfileInputSetQuickHelp')">
	      Use the tab <span>User Profile</span>  to enter  in detail  your personal information
	    </li>
	    <li  onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'UIUserMembershipSelectorQuickHelp')">
	      Use the tab <span>User Membership</span> to add  the  additional membership.  Note that  only 
	      the admin  can add  the membership 
	    </li>
	  </ul>
	  
	  <p>If  you already have an account but forget the username  or password,  use the "forget username/password" form or
	  contact the admin.</p>
	</div>
	
	<div class="UIQuickHelpContentPage" id="AccountTemplateQuickHelp" style="display: none">
	  <div>The account template is a pre-configure  account with certain features and  capabilities.</div>
	  <ul>
	    <li>Guest Account: A basic account, the user has no  right to modify the portal configuration</li>
	    <li>User Account:  A normal user account, the user is allowed to modify the portal configuration</li>
	    <li>Admin Account: A power user account, The user has all the right</li>
	  </ul>

    <div onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'NewAccountOverviewQuickHelp')">BACK</div>
	</div>
	
	<div class="UIQuickHelpContentPage" id="AccountInputSetQuickHelp" style="display: none">
	  <div>Use this tab to enter  your personal information. All the fields in this tab must be filled</div>

	  <ul>
	    <li>Username: accept only the digit and alpahbet characters</li>
	    <li>Password: accept all the characters</li>
	    <li>First Name: accept all the characters</li>
	    <li>Last Name: accept all the characters</li>
	    <li>Email: accept a string with the @ character</li>
	  </ul>
    <div onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'NewAccountOverviewQuickHelp')">BACK</div>
	</div>
	
	<div class="UIQuickHelpContentPage" id="UIUserProfileInputSetQuickHelp" style="display: none">
	  <div>Use this tab to enter  your personal information in detail. All the fields are  optional</div>
	  <div onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'NewAccountOverviewQuickHelp')">BACK</div>
	</div>
	
	<div class="UIQuickHelpContentPage" id="UIUserMembershipSelectorQuickHelp" style="display: none">
    <div>This tab allow the admin to add/remove a membership of the user.</div>
    <ul>
      <li>To remove a membership, click on the trash icon of the membership that you want to remove</li>
      <li>To add a membership, select a group  first, then click on the "Select Membership". A list of
        the membership will be pop up and then select the the membership</li>
    </ul>
	  <div onclick="eXo.webui.UIQuickHelp.changeQuickHelpPage(this, 'NewAccountOverviewQuickHelp')">BACK</div>
	</div>
</div>