{docbook}
<abstract>
<para>
eXo Platform provides a set of collaborative applications which help you achieve your goals and enhance your productivity in the corporate environment. This chapter presents the following topics:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="Platform_User_Guide.Collaboration.Manage_calendar">Manage your calendar</link> through the <emphasis role="bold">Calendar</emphasis> application. <emphasis role="bold">Calendar</emphasis> allows you to schedule appointments and meetings, establish recurring activities, create multiple calendars and share calendars with others. With <emphasis role="bold">Calendar</emphasis>, it is easy to keep track of all important events/tasks and collaborate with other people, all in one place.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="Platform_User_Guide.Collaboration.Communicate_with_Contacts.Manage_Contacts">Manage your contacts</link> through the <emphasis role="bold">Address Book</emphasis> application. <emphasis role="bold">Address Book</emphasis> is a contact manager, allowing you to organize all the contact information. You can use the contact information with other applications, such as <emphasis role="bold">Mail</emphasis>, <emphasis role="bold">Calendar</emphasis> and <emphasis role="bold">Chat</emphasis>. The integration between <emphasis role="bold">Address Book</emphasis> and other applications will help you enhance your group productivity in the collaborative environment.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="Platform_User_Guide.Collaboration.Communicate_with_Contacts.Email_Contacts">Email your contacts</link> through the <emphasis role="bold">Mail</emphasis> application. <emphasis role="bold">Mail</emphasis> is a webmail application which is smoothly integrated with <emphasis role="bold">Address Book</emphasis> and <emphasis role="bold">Calendar</emphasis>. Besides typical features of the <emphasis role="bold">Mail</emphasis> application, you can also add contacts, create address books or schedule your work right in <emphasis role="bold">Mail</emphasis>.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="Platform_User_Guide.Collaboration.Communicate_with_Contacts.Chat">Chat with your contacts</link> through the <emphasis role="bold">Chat</emphasis> application. <emphasis role="bold">Chat</emphasis> allows you to communicate with other users in your contact book quickly with an easy-to-use integrated text messaging application. You can chat with other people in real time, create chat rooms and add contacts from your <emphasis role="bold">Address Book</emphasis> to your friends list. This will save time and enhance the productivity when you want to have an instant communication with your contact without sending mails.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</abstract>
{docbook}