This chapter covers the following topics:
* [eXo Platform configuration|#ADM.Configuration.eXo_Configuration]
* [Database configuration|#ADM.Configuration.Database_Configuration]
* [File system paths|#ADM.Configuration.File_system_paths]
* [Mail server|#ADM.Configuration.MailServer]
* [WebDAV Cache Control|#ADM.Configuration.Mail_server]
* [Chat server|#ADM.Configuration.Chat_Server]
* [OpenOffice server|#ADM.Configuration.OpenOffice_server]
* [Log-in|#ADM.Configuration.Login]
* [JCR|#ADM.Configuration.JCR]
* [Cache configuration|#ADM.Configuration.CacheConfiguration]
* [User configuration|#ADM.Configuration.Users_configuration]
* [Gadget proxy configuration|#ADM.Configuration.Gadget_proxy_configuration]

h1. eXo Platform configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.eXo_Configuration}

In eXo Platform, the configuration is performed in a folder whose location is controlled by a system property named _exo.conf.dir_. By default, the _gatein.sh_ startup script sets this property as follows:

{code}
-Dexo.conf.dir.name=gatein/conf
{code}

So the main entry point for the eXo Platform configuration is _/gatein/conf/_. This directory contains the following files:

* _configuration.properties_: the main system configuration.

* _configuration.xml_: contains the default portal container configuration.

* _portal/portal/configuration.xml_: the main external customization entry point for the default portal container.


h2. Portal Containers, Customization and Configurations {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Portal_Containers_Customization_and_Configuration}

This section explains some parts of the eXo Platform internals so that you can understand the roles of these configuration files.

The eXo Platform Kernel collects runtime components in the portal containers.
A portal container holds all components to run a portal instance. It serves portal pages under the servlet context for its name. 

The default portal container in eXo Platform is simply called "portal". This explains why the default URL of the samples is http://localhost:8080/portal.

The default portal container can be configured directly inside _exo.conf.dir_.

However, eXo Platform is capable of running several portal instances simultaneously on the same server. 
Each instance can be configured and customized independently via files located at: _{noformat}/gatein/conf/portal/$PORTAL_NAME{noformat}_, where _{noformat}$PORTAL_NAME{noformat}_ is the name of the portal container.

{note}
The name of the configuration file can be altered.
Please refer to the section dedicated to _PortalContainerDefinition_  in the Kernel reference for more details on portal containers and other options to modify the location of the properties.
{note}

Services that run inside a portal container are declared via the xml configuration files like _configuration.xml_. Such files exist in jars, wars and below _exo.conf.dir_.

The .xml configuration files also serve as the main way to customize the portal via the multiple plugins offered by the eXo Platform components.

Additionally, the .xml files may contain variables that are populated via properties defined in _configuration.properties_.
Hence, the _configuration.properties_ file serves as exposing some selected variables that are necessary to configure eXo Platform in a server environment.

*configuration.properties* {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Configuration.properties}
The system configuration is mostly done in the _configuration.properties_ file.
In most cases, this should be the only file for the system administrator to configure.
* In the Tomcat bundle, this file is located at _/gatein/conf/configuration.properties_.
* In the Jboss server, this file is located at _server/default/conf/gatein/configuration.properties_.
*configuration.xml* {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Configuration.xml}
This file contains the built-in configuration for the "portal" portal container.
* In most cases, you should not change this file. 
* In case you do not want to use "portal" as the default portal for your project, this file can be used to import another PortalContainerDefinition into the root container.

{note}
To learn more about how to configure a new portal container, please refer to the Kernel reference guide.
{note}

* *portal/portal/configuration.xml* {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.portal/portal/configuration.xml}

This file is empty by default. This is where further customizations can be placed. Generally, custom configurations are provided by extension wars.
However, this file is the last loaded by the kernel. It has a higher priority over any other configuration files, including extensions. So, you can override any internal component configuration.

This may turn handy services or configurations that are not exposed in _configuration.properties_.

For example, you can decide to change the default transaction timeout for 2 minutes with this piece of xml:

{code:xml}
<component> 
  <key>org.exoplatform.services.transaction.TransactionService</key> 
  <type>org.exoplatform.services.transaction.jbosscache.JBossTransactionsService</type> 
  <init-params> 
    <value-param> 
      <name>timeout</name> 
      <value>120</value> 
    </value-param> 
  </init-params> 
</component>
{code}

h1. Database configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Database_Configuration}


eXo Platform relies on the application server for its database access, so the database must be configured as a data source at the AS level.
The data source is obtained by accessing the Enterprise Naming Context (ENC) through the Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) service.

h2. Connect to a production database {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Connect_To_A_Production_Database}

If you intend to bring your eXo Platform to production, the embedded hsql database will not be appropriate and you will need to configure your app server to use another one.
You need to learn how to configure eXo Platform data sources and your app server. If you need to change the data sources name, read *Change the datasources names* below.

{info}
The steps below will show you how to configure eXo Platform to use a MySQL database. You need to adapt them to your actual production environment.
{info}

{tip}Refer to the Database FAQ below to find out our sample configuration files for MySQL and other DB systems.{tip}

*Step 1.* Prepare your database server. {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Prepare_Your_Database_Server}

You need to prepare two database schema, then do as follows:

*1.* Connect to your database server using the *ssh* command: {code}ssh root@db.example.org{code}

*2.* Verify that MySQL is running: {code}sudo /etc/init.d/mysqld status{code}

*3.* Connect to MySQL: {code}mysql -u root -p{code}
In this step, you will be prompted for entering your password.

*4.* Create 2 databases: one for idm (_$dbname-idm_) and the other for jcr _$dbname-jcr_). For example:

*i.* Create the first database: {code}create database _$dbname_;{code}

*ii.* Configure the user who have the remote access right (not only from the host server):

{code}grant all on _$dbname_.* to '_$username_'@'_$IP_' identified by '_$password_';{code}
In which, $IP = AS host name, $IP = IP with wildcard (eg 192.168.1.% = all IPs on 192.168.1.x network) and $username = username that eXo Platform will connect with (i.e. 'dbname_user').

*5.* Verify that both databases were created successfully: {code}show databases;{code}

*6.* Quit the server with the *exit* command.

{note}
eXo Platform does not require tables to be created before it starts because these tables are created automatically on the first startup. If you want to run the DDL script to create the database objects, please contact eXo Support to obtain the script for your database.
{note}

*Step 2.* Configure eXo Platform. {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Configure_eXo_Platform}

After the database is ready, you need to configure eXo Platform to connect to it. The configuration steps may be different, depending on the application server. Here, instructions are for Tomcat and JBoss.

*Tomcat bundle*: {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Tomcat_Bundle}

In Tomcat, the data sources configuration requires you to edit two files:
* server.xml
* starter.xml

{tip}
Please refer to Tomcat's [JNDI Resources How To|http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/jndi-resources-howto.html] for more details on the JNDI resources binding in Tomcat.
{tip}

*To edit the server.xml file:*

*1.* Open the file following the _{noformat}$TOMCAT_HOME/conf/server.xml{noformat}_ path.

*2.* Declare the binding of the data sources in the GlobalNaming context:

* Change the driver from _{noformat}org.hsqldb.jdbcDriver{noformat}_ to _{noformat}com.mysql.jdbc.Driver{noformat}_.
* Change the username and password to the values set above.
* Change the URL to access your DataBase from _{noformat}jdbc:hsqldb:file:../gatein/data/hsql/exo-jcr_portal{noformat}_ to _{noformat}jdbc:mysql://_$host_:3306/_$dbname_{noformat}_.

The code now should look like:

{code:xml}
<!-- eXo JCR Datasource for portal -->
<Resource name="exo-jcr_portal" auth="Container" type="javax.sql.DataSource"
               maxActive="20" maxIdle="10" maxWait="10000"
			   removeAbandoned="true" removeAbandonedTimeout="10" logAbandoned="true" minEvictableIdleTimeMillis="60000"
               username="_$username_" password="_$password_" driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
               url="jdbc:mysql://_$host_:3306/_$dbname-jcr_"/>

<!-- eXo IDM Datasource for portal -->                
<Resource name="exo-idm_portal" auth="Container" type="javax.sql.DataSource"
               maxActive="20" maxIdle="10" maxWait="10000"
			   removeAbandoned="true" removeAbandonedTimeout="10" logAbandoned="true" minEvictableIdleTimeMillis="60000"
               username="_$username_" password="_$password_" driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
               url="jdbc:mysql://_$host_:3306/_$dbname-idm_"/>   
{code}

*3.* Add the JDBC driver.
In this step, you need to add the MySQL connector to Tomcat by adding _{noformat}mysql-connector-java-5.1.x.jar{noformat}_ to _{noformat}$TOMCAT_HOME/lib/{noformat}_.

*To edit the starter.xml file:*

*1.* Open the _starter.xml_ file to the _{noformat}$TOMCAT_HOME/conf/Catalina/localhost/starter.xml{noformat}_ path.

*2.* Declare the resource links that make your datasources accessible to the starter webapp which is used when starting eXo Platform.

{code:xml}
<ResourceLink name="exo-jcr_portal"
                global="exo-jcr_portal"
                type="javax.sql.DataSource"/>

<ResourceLink name="exo-idm_portal"
                global="exo-idm_portal"
                type="javax.sql.DataSource"/>
{code}

*JBoss*: {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.JBoss}

To configure the data source for eXo Platform under JBoss, do as follows:

* Edit server.xml

* Add the JDBC driver

*1.* Edit the _gatein-ds.xml_ file.

*i.* Open the file following the _{noformat}$JBOSS_HOME/server/default/deploy/gatein-ds.xml{noformat}_ path.

*ii.* Declare the binding of the data sources in the GlobalNaming context:

* Change the driver: _{noformat}org.hsqldb.jdbcDriver{noformat}_ to _{noformat}com.mysql.jdbc.Driver{noformat}_.

* Change the username and password to the values set earlier.

* Change the URL to access your database: _{noformat}<connection-url>jdbc:hsqldb:${jboss.server.data.dir}${/}exo${/}hypersonic${/}exo-xxx_portal-localDB</connection-url>{noformat}_ to _{noformat}<connection-url>jdbc:mysql://_$host_:3306/_$dbname_</connection-url>{noformat}_.

The configuration should now look like:

{code:xml}
<datasources>
    <no-tx-datasource>
      <jndi-name>exo-idm_portal</jndi-name>
      <connection-url>jdbc:mysql://_$host_:3306/_$dbname-idm_</connection-url>
      <driver-class>com.mysql.jdbc.Driver</driver-class>
      <user-name>_$username_</user-name>
      <password>_$password_</password>

      <min-pool-size>5</min-pool-size>
      <max-pool-size>20</max-pool-size>
      <idle-timeout-minutes>0</idle-timeout-minutes>
      <prepared-statement-cache-size>32</prepared-statement-cache-size>
   </no-tx-datasource>
<!-- ...  -->
   <no-tx-datasource>
      <jndi-name>exo-jcr_portal</jndi-name>
      <connection-url>jdbc:mysql://_$host_:3306/_$dbname-jcr_</connection-url>
      <driver-class>com.mysql.jdbc.Driver</driver-class>
      <user-name>_$username_</user-name>
      <password>_$password_</password>

      <min-pool-size>5</min-pool-size>
      <max-pool-size>20</max-pool-size>
      <idle-timeout-minutes>0</idle-timeout-minutes>
      <prepared-statement-cache-size>32</prepared-statement-cache-size>
   </no-tx-datasource>
</datasources>
{code}

*2.* Add the JDBC driver.
In this step, you need to add the MySQL connector library in JBoss by adding _mysql-connector-java-5.1.x.jar_ to _{noformat}$JBOSS_HOME/server/default/lib/{noformat}_.

{tip}You can get the latest MySQL connector [here|http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/].{tip}

*3.* Rename the data source.

By default, eXo Platform defines two data sources:

* exo-jcr{{{_}}}portal - for the Java Content Repository (JCR).

* exo-idm{{{_}}}portal - for the organizational model.

You may want to rename the data source as follows:

*i.* Open and edit the configuration.properties path.

In this step, indicate to eXo name of the data sources.

{code}
# JNDI name of the datasource that will be used by eXo JCR
gatein.jcr.datasource.name=java:/comp/env/exojcr
...
# JNDI Name of the IDM datasource
gatein.idm.datasource.name=java:/comp/env/exo-idm
{code}               

{note}
eXo Platform automatically appends the portal container name ("_portal" by default) to these values before performing a JNDI lookup.
{note}

*ii.* Change the data source name in the application server.

In this step, you need to change the name under which the data sources are bound in the JNDI tree by the app server. This is a dependent application sever.

h2. FAQs of database configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.FAQDatabaseConfiguration}

*Q1. How to configure eXo Platform to connect to other database systems?* {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.FAQDatabaseConfiguration.Connect_to_other_database_system}

Configuring eXo Platform to connect to other database can be done easily. eXo Platform provides sample configuration files in the folders:

* {noformat}eXo Platform-3.5.x.zip/conf/db/{noformat}
** mysql
** oracle
** postgres

In each folder, you will find two sample xml files: _gatein-ds.xml_ for JBoss and _server.xml_ for Tomcat.

Each file contains 2 preconfigured datasources. For example (JCR datasource in _mysql/server.xml_):

{code:xml}
<Resource name="exo-jcr_portal" auth="Container" type="javax.sql.DataSource"
          maxActive="128" maxIdle="32" maxWait="10000"
          testWhileIdle="true" timeBetweenEvictionRunsMillis="30000" validationQuery="SELECT 1" 
          username="${db.username}" password="${db.password}" driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
          url="jdbc:mysql://${db.host}:${db.port}/${db.jcr.name}"/>
{code}

You simply replace the variables with the expected values:

|| Variables || Expected values ||
| db.username | The username that connects to the database. |
| db.password | The password for the above user. |
| db.host | The hostname or IP address of the DB server. |
| db.port | The port to connect to the DB. |
| db.jcr.name | The DB name for the JCR datasource. |
| db.idm.name | The DB name for the IDM datasource. |

Please remember to add the JDBC connector JAR in the classpath of your application server.

You can download the official JDBC connector JARs from the following websites:

* http://www.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/
* http://jdbc.postgresql.org/download.html
* http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/features/jdbc/index-091264.html

*Q2. How to remove the idle MySQL connections?* {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.FAQDatabaseConfiguration.Remove_idle_MySQL_connections}

Some RDBMSs, like MySQL, close the idle connections after a period (8 hours on MySQL by default). Thus, a connection from the pool will be invalid and any application SQL command will fail, resulting in errors as below:

{code}
org.hibernate.SessionException: Session is closed!
at org.hibernate.impl.AbstractSessionImpl.errorIfClosed(AbstractSessionImpl.java:72)
at org.hibernate.impl.SessionImpl.getTransaction(SessionImpl.java:1342)
{code}

To avoid this, you can use DBCP to monitor the idle connections and drop them when they are invalid, with the parameters *testWhileIdle*, *timeBetweenEvictionRunsMillis* and *validationQuery*.

The validation query is specific to your RDBMS. For example, on MySQL, you would use:

{code}
testWhileIdle="true" timeBetweenEvictionRunsMillis="30000" validationQuery="SELECT 1"
{code}

In which:

* *testWhileIdle* activates idle connections monitoring.
* *timeBetweenEvictionRunsMillis* defines the time interval between two checks in milliseconds (5 minutes in the example).
* *validationQuery* provides a simple SQL command to validate the connection to the RDBMS.

You can add these parameters to the data source configuration file of your application server, for example: conf/server.xml on Tomcat.

For more details on the configuration, or some examples on other RDBMS and applications servers, please refer to:

* http://markmail.org/message/a3bszoyqbvi5qer4
* http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15949/javatomcat-dying-databse-connection
* http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/JIRA/Surviving+Connection+Closures

h1. File system paths {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.File_system_paths}
eXo Platform requires the read/write access to several paths in the local file system.

{code}
# Main file system directory
gatein.data.dir=../gatein/data

# path for any JCR data 
gatein.jcr.data.dir=${gatein.data.dir}/jcr

# path for file data inserted in JCR
gatein.jcr.storage.data.dir=${gatein.jcr.data.dir}/values

# path for the jcr index
gatein.jcr.index.data.dir=${gatein.jcr.data.dir}/index
{code}

The following table explains what goes in which path. The *Temporary* column indicates if the data are temporary or persistent.

|| Variable || Content || Temporary ||
| {{gatein.data.dir}} | JTA transactional data. | V |
| {{gatein.jcr.data.dir}} | JCR swap data. | V |
| {{gatein.jcr.storage.data.dir}} | Binary value storage for JCR.| X |
| {{gatein.jcr.index.data.dir}} | Lucene index for JCR. | X |

Each variable can be defined as an absolute or a relative path.
The default configuration combines them to obtain a compact tree:

{code}
/gatein       # gatein.data.dir
  /data
    /hsql
    /jcr      # gatein.jcr.data.dir
      /index  # gatein.jcr.index.data.dir    
      /swap
      /values # gatein.jcr.storage.data.dir    
    /jta      
{code}

h1. Mail server {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.MailServer}

eXo Platform requires the SMTP server to send emails, such as notifications or password reminders.

The Email service can use any SMTP account that needs to be configured in _/server/default/conf/gatein/configuration.properties_ (Or _{noformat}$TOMCAT_HOME/
gatein/conf/configuration.properties{noformat}_ if you are using Tomcat).

The relevant section looks like:

{code}
#EMail
mail.from=
gatein.email.smtp.from=
gatein.email.smtp.username=
gatein.email.smtp.password=
gatein.email.smtp.host=smtp.gmail.com
gatein.email.smtp.port=465
gatein.email.smtp.starttls.enable=true
gatein.email.smtp.auth=true
gatein.email.smtp.socketFactory.port=465
gatein.email.smtp.socketFactory.class=javax.net.ssl.SSLSocketFactory
{code}

Some authenticated SMTP systems, such as GMail, GMX, MS Exchange, require the value for 'sender' or 'from' in the email message that must be identical to the SMTP user and host.

The Forum application uses it in the notification phase as the default sender. If it is not set, the sender will be empty.

| *mail.from* | Sender's email address. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.from* | Sender's email address. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.host* | SMTP hostname. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.port* | SMTP port. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.starttls.enable* | True to enable the secure (TLS) SMTP. See  RFC 3207. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.auth* | True to enable the SMTP authentication. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.username* | Username to send for authentication. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.password* | Password to send for authentication. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.socketFactory.port* | Specify the port to connect to when using the specified socket factory. |
| *gatein.email.smtp.socketFactory.class* | This class will be used to create SMTP sockets. |

To see more details, refer to [JavaMail API documentation|http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/javadocs/com/sun/mail/smtp/package-summary.html].

For eXo Knowledge, you have to add one of the following properties to the configuration file _/gatein/conf/configuration.properties_ to make sure that this mail service works with the authenticated SMTP systems:

{screen}
mail.from= 
gatein.email.smtp.from=
{screen}

The value must be the exact email address of the account configured above.

h1. WebDAV cache control {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Mail_server}

The embedded WebDAV server lets you control the cache-control http header that transmits to clients by the MIME type.
This is useful for fine-tuning your website.

The configuration property is _exo.webdav.cache-control_.

{screen}
exo.webdav.cache-control=text/*:max-age=3600;image/*:max-age=1800;*/*:no-cache;
{screen}

The property expects a comma-separated list of key=pair values, where keys are a list of MIME types followed by the cache-control value to set.

h1. Chat server {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Chat_Server}

h2. XMPPMessenger {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.XMPPMessenger}

If you change the host name and port for the Chat server, you will need to edit two properties:

{screen}
# IP or hostname for the eXo Chat XMPP server
exo.chat.server=127.0.0.1

# TCP port for where the eXo Chat server listens for XMPP calls
exo.chat.port=5222
{screen}

h2. Chat server configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Chat_server_configuration}

The standalone Chat server is configured in the _{noformat}$CHATSERVER/conf/openfire.xml{noformat}_ file.

Configuration is based on properties expressed in the XML syntax. For example, to set the _prop.name.is.blah=value_ property, you would write this xml snippet:

{code:xml}
<prop>
  <name>
    <is>
      <blah>value</blah>
    </is>
  </name>
</prop>
{code}


Openfire has an extensive list of configuration properties. Please read the list of all properties in [Openfire documentation | http://community.igniterealtime.org/docs/DOC-1061] for more details.

The Chat server is an Openfire server bundled with plugins and configurations that allow connectivity to eXo Platform.
The following properties are used to configure it.

|| Property || Description || Default value ||
| *env*|  |  |
| *serverbaseURL* | Base URL for all URLs below. | http://localhost:8080/ |
| *restContextName* | Name of the rest context. | rest |
| *provider* |  |  |
| *authorizedUser.name* | Username to authenticate against the HTTP REST service. | root  |
| *authorizedUser.password* | Password matching with provider.authorizeduser.name. | password  |
| *eXoAuthProvider* |  |  |
| *authenticationURL* | URL to authenticate users. | /organization/authenticate/ |
| *authenticationMethod* | HTTP method used to pass parameters. | POST |
| *eXoUserProvider* |  |  |
| *findUsersURL* | URL to find all users. | /organization/xml/user/find-all/  |
| *findUsersMethod* | HTTP method for user/find-all. | GET  |
| *getUsersURL* | URL to retrieve a range of users. | /organization/xml/user/view-range/ |
| *getUsersMethod* | HTTP method for user/view-range. | GET  |
| *usersCountURL* | URL to count users. | /organization/xml/user/count/  |
| *usersCountMethod* | HTTP method for user/count. | GET |
| *userInfoURL* | URL to get user information. | /organization/xml/user/info/  |
| *userInfoMethod* | HTTP method for user/information. | GET  |
| *eXoGroupProvider* |  |  |
| *groupInfoURL* | URL to get group information. | /organization/xml/group/info/ |
| *groupInfoMethod* | HTTP method for information. | GET  |
| *getGroupsAllURL* | URL to view all groups. | /organization/xml/group/view-all/ |
| *getGroupsAllMethod* | HTTP method for group/view-all. | GET |
| *getGroupsRangeURL* | URL to view a group range. | /organization/xml/group/view-from-to/ |
| *getGroupsRangeMethod* | HTTP method for group/view-from-to. | GET |
| *getGroupsForUserURL* | URL to get groups for a user. | /organization/xml/group/groups-for-user/ |
| *getGroupsForUserMethod* |HTTP method for groups-for-user. | GET |
| *groupsCountURL* | URL to count groups. | organization/xml/group/count |
| *groupsCountMethod*  | HTTP method for group/count. | GET |

h3. Ports {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Ports}

To run the chat server properly, several ports must be opened in the firewall.

|| Port || Type || Description ||
| 5222 (1) | Client to server (xmpp) | The standard port for clients is to connect to the server. Connections may or may not be encrypted. You can update the security settings for this port with the _exo.chat.port_ property. |
| 9090 && 9091 | Admin Console (http) | The ports used for accessing the unsecured and secured Openfire Admin Console respectively. |
| 3478 & 3479 | STUN service | The port used for the service that ensures connectivity between entities behind a NAT. |

h1. OpenOffice server {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.OpenOffice_server}
eXo Platform allows users to view documents of various types directly on the content explorer through the OpenOffice server. To do so, the OpenOffice application must be available in your local device first. Next, start the OpenOffice server by running the command below:

{screen}soffice -headless -accept="socket,host=127.0.0.1,port=8100;urp;" -nofirststartwizard{screen}


h1. Log-in {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Login}

The login to eXo Platform is controlled by the [Java Logging API|http://download-llnw.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/guide/logging/index.html].

By default, the login is configured to:

* log errors and warnings on the console.
* logs _/gatein/logs/gatein-YYYY-MM-DD.log_.

In Tomcat, the login is configured via the _conf/logging.properties_ file. Please refer to [Tomcat's Logging Documentation|http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/logging.html] for more information on how to adjust this file to your needs.

h1. JCR {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.JCR}

The set of properties controls the JCR behaviour.

{code}
# Type of JCR configuration to use. Possible values are:
# local : local JBC configuration
# cluster : cluster JBC configuration
gatein.jcr.config.type=local

# This is the filter used to notify changes in the jcr index
# in cluster mode, use org.exoplatform.services.jcr.impl.core.query.jbosscache.JBossCacheIndexChangesFilter
gatein.jcr.index.changefilterclass=org.exoplatform.services.jcr.impl.core.query.DefaultChangesFilter

# JCR cache configuration
gatein.jcr.cache.config=${gatein.jcr.jbosscache.config}/${gatein.jcr.config.type}/cache-config.xml

gatein.jcr.cache.expiration.time=15m

# JCR Locks configuration
gatein.jcr.lock.cache.config=${gatein.jcr.jbosscache.config}/${gatein.jcr.config.type}/lock-config.xml

# JCR Index configuration
gatein.jcr.index.cache.config=${gatein.jcr.jbosscache.config}/${gatein.jcr.config.type}/indexer-config.xml
gatein.jcr.jgroups.config=classpath:/conf/jcr/jbosscache/cluster/udp-mux.xml
{code}

*Details:*

| *{{gatein.jcr.config.type}}* | Use the cluster if you want to use eXo Platform in the cluster mode. Otherwise, leave *local*. |
| *{{gatein.jcr.index.changefilterclass}}* | In the cluster mode, change it to {{org.exoplatform.services.jcr.impl.core.query.jbosscache.JBossCacheIndexChangesFilter}}. |
| *{{gatein.jcr.cache.config}}* | The JBoss Cache configuration for the JCR locks. |
| *{{gatein.jcr.index.cache.config}}* | The JBoss Cache configuration for the JCR index. |
| *{{gatein.jcr.jgroups.config}}* | The JGroups configuration to use for the cluster mode. |

For more details on configuring these files, please refer to the eXo JCR reference guide.


h1. Cache configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.CacheConfiguration}

Please refer to the Chapter 4 of this guide ([Cache management view|/docs/admin/html/ch04.html#ADM.Management.Cache_management_view]) to see the description about the cache configuration.

h2. Portal Cache Configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.CacheConfiguration.PortalCacheConfig}
{code}
# Portal Cache Configuration - TemplateService
cache.exo.portal.TemplateService.capacity=3000
cache.exo.portal.TemplateService.liveTime=600

# Portal Cache Configuration - ResourceBundleData
cache.exo.portal.ResourceBundleData.capacity=3000
cache.exo.portal.ResourceBundleData.liveTime=600

# Portal Cache Configuration - MOPSessionManager
cache.exo.portal.MOPSessionManager.Capacity=5000
cache.exo.portal.MOPSessionManager.TimeToLive=60000
cache.exo.portal.MOPSessionManager.ExpirationTimeout=60000
{code}

h2. Social Cache Configuration  {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.CacheConfiguration.SocialCacheConfig}
{code}
# Social Cache Configuration - ActivityManager
## ActivityManager.ActivityCache 
cache.exo.social.ActivityManager.ActivityCache.Capacity=4000
cache.exo.social.ActivityManager.ActivityCache.TimeToLive=43200

## ActivityManager.ActivityListCache
cache.exo.social.ActivityManager.ActivityListCache.Capacity=1000
cache.exo.social.ActivityManager.ActivityListCache.TimeToLive=7200

## ActivityManager.CommentsCache
cache.exo.social.ActivityManager.CommentsCache.Capacity=1000
cache.exo.social.ActivityManager.CommentsCache.TimeToLive=86400

# Social Cache Configuration - IdentityManager
## IdentityManager.IdentityCache
cache.exo.social.IdentityManager.IdentityCache.Capacity=1000
cache.exo.social.IdentityManager.IdentityCache.TimeToLive=3600

## IdentityManager.IdentityCacheById
cache.exo.social.IdentityManager.IdentityCacheById.Capacity=3000
cache.exo.social.IdentityManager.IdentityCacheById.TimeToLive=3600

## IdentityManager.IdentityListCache
cache.exo.social.IdentityManager.IdentityListCache.Capacity=300
cache.exo.social.IdentityManager.IdentityListCache.TimeToLive=600

# Social Cache Configuration - RelationshipManager
##  RelationshipManager.RelationshipIdCache
cache.exo.social.RelationshipManager.RelationshipIdCache.Capacity=300
cache.exo.social.RelationshipManager.RelationshipIdCache.TimeToLive=600

## RelationshipManager.RelationshipListCache
cache.exo.social.RelationshipManager.RelationshipListCache.Capacity=1000
cache.exo.social.RelationshipManager.RelationshipListCache.TimeToLive=3600

# Social Cache Configuration - SpaceStorage
cache.exo.social.SpaceStorage.SpaceCache.Capacity=300
cache.exo.social.SpaceStorage.SpaceCache.TimeToLive=7200
{code}

h2. ECMS Cache Configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.CacheConfiguration.ECMSCacheConfig}
{code}
# ECMS Cache Configuration - Viewer
cache.exo.ecms.Viewer.PDFViewer.Capacity=300
cache.exo.ecms.Viewer.PDFViewer.TimeToLive=3600

# ECMS Cache Configuration - Drives
cache.exo.ecms.Drives.ManageDrive.Capacity=300
cache.exo.ecms.Drives.ManageDrive.TimeToLive=86400

# ECMS Cache Configuration - Scripts
cache.exo.ecms.Scripts.ScriptService.Capacity=300
cache.exo.ecms.Scripts.ScriptService.TimeToLive=86400

# ECMS Cache Configuration - Templates
cache.exo.ecms.Templates.TemplateService.Capacity=300
cache.exo.ecms.Templates.TemplateService.TimeToLive=86400

# ECMS Cache Configuration - Webcontent
cache.exo.ecms.Webcontent.InitialWebContentPlugin.Capacity=300
cache.exo.ecms.Webcontent.InitialWebContentPlugin.TimeToLive=600

# ECMS Cache Configuration - WCM Composer
cache.exo.ecms.WCMComposer.Capacity=1000
cache.exo.ecms.WCMComposer.TimeToLive=3600
{code}
 
h1. Users configurations {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Users_configuration}

h2. Super-user configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Super_user_configuration}

In eXo Platform, the user "root" is defined as the super-admin by default.
You could override this configuration by modifying the system property named _exo.super.user_ defined in configuration.properties.

h2. Default users list definition of eXo Platform {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.eXo_Platform_default_users_list_definition}

In eXo Platform, the default users, excluding Super-admin user, are defined in "Acme WebSite" and "Office Intranet" extensions. By deleting those extensions, the users "john", "demo", "james" and "mary" will not be created.

h1. Gadget proxy configuration {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Gadget_proxy_configuration}

In eXo Platform, you could allow gadgets to load remote resources. However, this could be a potential security risk, as it will make the Gadget deployey as an open web proxy.
This implies configuring ProxyFilterService.

The default configuration is set as below:

{code:xml}
<component>
  <key>org.exoplatform.web.security.proxy.ProxyFilterService</key>
  <type>org.exoplatform.web.security.proxy.ProxyFilterService</type>
  <init-params>
    <values-param>
      <!-- The white list -->
      <name>white-list</name>
      <!-- Accept anything not black listed -->
      <value>*</value>
    </values-param>
    <values-param>
      <name>black-list</name>
      <value>*.evil.org</value>
    </values-param>
  </init-params>
</component>
{code}

This configuration can be added into _{noformat}<GATEIN_CONF_DIR>/portal/<PORTAL_CONTAINER_NAME>/configuration.xml{noformat}_.
* _{noformat}<GATEIN_CONF_DIR>{noformat}_= _{noformat}TOMCAT_HOME/gatein/conf/{noformat}_ if you are using tomcat and _{noformat}JBOSS_HOME/server/<PROFILE>/conf/gatein/{noformat}_ if you are using JBoss.
* _{noformat}<PORTAL_CONTAINER_NAME>{noformat}_= the name of the used portal container, by default it is set to _portal_.

h2. How does it work {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Gadget_proxy_configuration.How_does_it_work}

The proxy service allow accessing any site which matches the _white-list_ domains, unless it belongs to the _black-list_.
If the site is not defined in neither the white list nor black list, access will be denied.
Multiple values can be added for each list and wildcards can also be used.

The following is an example of the Gadget Proxy configuration: {anchor:id=ADM.Configuration.Gadget_proxy_configuration.Example}

{code:xml}
<component>
  <key>org.exoplatform.web.security.proxy.ProxyFilterService</key>
  <type>org.exoplatform.web.security.proxy.ProxyFilterService</type>
  <init-params>
    <values-param>
      <name>white-list</name>
      <value>*.example.com</value>
      <value>www.example.net</value>
    </values-param>
    <values-param>
      <name>black-list</name>
      <value>evil.example.com</value>
    </values-param>
  </init-params>
</component>
{code}