
h1. eXo Platform {anchor:id=DEV.eXoPlatform}

{include:document=introduction.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. Get Started {anchor:id=DEV.Introduction.GetStarted}

{include:document=Introduction_GetStarted.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h2. Glossary {anchor:id=DEV.Glossary}

{include:document=glossary.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h2. Set up Maven settings {anchor:id=DEV.SetupMavenSettings}

{include:document=Set_up_project.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h2. eXo Architecture Primer {anchor:id=DEV.eXoArchitecturePrimer}

{include:document=architecture.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. Create Your Own Portal {anchor:id=DEV.CreatingYourOwnPortal}

{include:document=customize.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. Work With Content {anchor:id=DEV.WorkingwithContent}

{include:document=content.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. Work With Applications {anchor:id=DEV.WorkingwithApplications}

{include:document=applications.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. System Integration {anchor:id=DEV.SystemIntegration}

{include:document=integration.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. eXo Platform 3.5 APIs {anchor:id=DEV.eXoPlatformAPIs}

{include:document=supported_api.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. Cookbook {anchor:id=DEV.Cookbook}

{include:document=Introduction-cookbook.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}
{include:document=cookbook.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. Upgrade eXo Platform {anchor:id=DEV.Upgrade}

{include:document=Upgrade.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}

h1. New Features {anchor:id=DEV.NewFeatures}

{include:document=new_features.wiki|syntax=confluence/1.0}


