h1. Welcome to eXo Platform Ê

eXo Platform 3.0, the user experience platform for Java, is comprised of Core and Extended Services.

* *Core Services*
** _GateIn Portal_: a powerful framework for developing portlets and other web-based user interfaces
** _eXo Content_: extends portal-based applications with Enterprise Content Management (ECM) capabilities
*** _eXo WCM_: web content management services
*** _xCMIS_: an implementation of the full stack of Java-based CMIS (Content Management Interoperability Specification) services on top of eXo WCM
*** _eXo Workflow_: integrated BPM (business process management) capabilities 
** _eXo IDE_: an intuitive web-based development environment that allows developers to build, test and deploy client applications (such as gadgets and mashups) and REST-ful services online
** _CRaSH_: enables easy browsing of JCR trees, and serves as a shell for executing JCR operations
* *Extended Services*
** _eXo Social_: a framework for building gadgets that can display and mash-up activity information for contacts, social networks, applications and services
** _eXo Collaboration_: easily add Mail, Chat, Calendar and Address Book services to portal-based web applications
** _eXo Knowledge_: adds Forum, Answers and FAQ functionality to portal-based apps, for collecting, organizing and sharing user knowledge

eXo Platform is a fully supported and commercially licensed product based on eXo open source projects. ÊDesigned for enterprise use, it has been packaged and tested to optimize production readiness and administration.
eXo Platform runs on JBoss, Spring, Tomcat, WebSphere, and other Java applications servers, and can be used with most relational database systems, including MySQL and Oracle. 


h1. Who should read this guide? 


This guide describes how to get started with eXo Platform, specifically for 
* _System Integrators_ : developers who want to know how to leverage eXo Platform in their customer projects. 
* _Enterprise IT_ : developers that need to customize and deploy a portal in their enterprise.

This guide introduces the eXo architecture, and shows developers how to perform some of the most common tasks needed for working with the Platform. It also serves as an entry point for the Reference Guide, which provides more in-depth technical detail about eXo Platform 3.0.

At the end, you will be able to create your own portal customization with eXo Platform .





