eXo Platform provides a set of collaborative application which help you achieve your goals and enhance your productivity in the corporate environment. 

In particular: 

* *Address Book* is a contact manager, allowing you to organize all the contact information. You can use the contact information with other Collaboration applications, such as Mail, Calendar and Chat. The integration of Address Book and other applications in eXo Collaboration will help you enhance your group productivity in the collaborative environment. 
* *Calendar* allows you to schedule appointments and meetings, establish recurring activities, create multiple calendars and share calendars with others. With Calendar, it is easy to keep track of all important events/tasks and collaborate with other people, all in one place.
* *Mail* is a webmail application of eXo Collaboration. Mail is smoothly integrated with Address Book and Calendar. Besides typical features of one Mail application, you can also add contacts, create address books or schedule the work right in Mail. 
* *Chat* allows you to communicate with other users in you contact book quickly with an easy-to-use integrated text messaging application. You can chat with other people in real time, create chat rooms and add contacts from your Address Book to your friends list. 
This will save time and enhance the productivity when you want to have an instant communication with your contact without sending mails.

In this section, you will know how to:
* [Manage your contacts|#Platform_User_Guide.eXo_Platform.Tutorials.Manage_contacts]
* [Email your contacts|#Platform_User_Guide.eXo_Platform.Tutorials.Email_contacts]
* [Chat with your contacts|#Platform_User_Guide.eXo_Platform.Tutorials.Chat_with_contacts]
* [Manage your agenda|#Platform_User_Guide.eXo_Platform.Tutorials.Manage_agendar]